title:: Readwise/Highlights/Which Path Are You On? | Master Internet Marketing With Loretta
author:: [[lorettahelson.com]]
full-title:: Which Path Are You On? | Master Internet Marketing With Loretta
category:: #articles
url:: http://www.lorettahelson.com/which-path-are-you-on/

- 1. The Dabbler. The dabbler loves new things. At the beginning the new thing or experience, etc. feels good. It’s new and interesting. They learn a new skill, they go at with great enthusiam and they start to see some results. They’re excited! But soon, they hit a plateau. They’re working just as hard but the results aren’t coming in fast enough. They get bored, frustrated and they quit. They move on to another new, shiny object that they hope will get them the results they’re looking for. A few years down the road they realise they haven’t really achieved anything and they find themselves saying, ‘I wish I woulda, or I shoulda’ (Tony’s words).
  2. The Stresser! The  stresser will make it work, no matter what, dang it! They will push & push & push, work and work and work until they darn well get a result. When they hit the plateau (please note there is always a plateau), they will just keep pushing through it, working harder and not necessarily smarter until eventually they burn themselves out!
  3. Then there’s Mastery. People who study mastery will practice the fundamentals every day. The master never gets bored. The master says, I’m going to work hard and perfect my craft and even then I can perfect it further. When they hit the plateau, they continue to look for the answers that will move them to the next level. Mastery comes with a sense of patience. No less Urgency, but a sense of patience that says, if I have to move back half a step to move 10 steps forward I will do it in the blink of an eye. #Highlight #[[2022-05-20]]